are you heading to a foreign country and
don't speak the native tongue Volk Rea
is a new translation app for iPhone and
iPad that allows users to speak to
another person in a different language
here to show me how the app works is the
founder of my language Andrew Lauder
thanks so much for joining us all right
thanks for having me so give me a demo
so basically Volk ray the first step is
setting the language of yourself and the
person you're speaking with
and if example all say something in
German and it'll translate into English
okay and so for the iPhone version you
do a rotation you turn upside down any
wait for the microphone to up here
gutentag the gate s Enon you check to
see that the text is correct and then
you simply rotate the person you're
talking to for that person to respond
you just rotate it down and wait for the
microphone to appear I'm fine thanks for
asking how are you today you check that
it's correct and rotated back to the
district just so that's as simple as
record review and translate seems pretty
seamless what's the technology that's
going on in the background to give us
that experience so the first step is
converting the users voice into text and
for that we're using the same technology
that powers Siri it's powered by nuance
and they currently have 23 languages
once we have the text then we use our
own hybrid translation we actually check
to see if we already have a translation
that's more appropriate we provide to
the user if we don't then we can use
something like a machine translation
essentially we find a good answer for
the user once you have the translation
we then convert it back into audio using
a company called Ice Beach they have the
most human-like voices we've found so
you're taking advantage of technologies
that are developed by other companies
nuance and iSpeech what is my languages
proprietary technology then so we have
two main focuses one is on making an a
user experience that is not the focal
point of a conversation we want the
conversation to flow and we don't want
you to be tapping on the screen and
focused on the app
the second focus is on making
translation technology that gets better
over time and so we have we're using a
crowdsourcing model where essentially if
the user finds something that's bad with
a translation that can provide a
suggestion like it's also we hire
translators to come in and correct
translations so over time the
translation engine gets much smarter and
more accurate what are the remaining
obstacles essentially the problem is
that language is infinite and you can't
really scale computers to be infinite
but you can't focus changes yes language
changes over time new words and new uses
so our focus is to put it in the
conversation because we believe that we
will learn from how people say things
and how the right thing to say something
is as opposed to just a calculation with
a machine translator so if 10 different
people are using the slang term of the
moment then maybe it'll start being
incorporated into vogue right absolutely
so our algorithms essentially learn from
the usage of the application Andrew
Lauder founder of mine language thanks
so much for the demo thank you
for smart planet I'm sue Meade us thanks
for watching